Fog-compatible Gift Codes (#32)
mobilecoinfoundation/mcips: text/0032-fog-compatible-gift-codes.md

Instead of transfering private keys to an entire account, we just transfer ownership of a specific `TxOut`.
We give them private keys and secrets connected to this `TxOut`, but which don't reveal anything about our account private keys.

* To enable someone to spend a TxOut, we just have to give them the `onetime_private_key` of the `TxOut`.
* To enable someone to see the unblinded amount of the TxOut, we just have to give them the `shared_secret` of the `TxOut`.
* To enable someone to find the TxOut in the ledger (even a Fog user), we just have to tell them the global index in the blockchain.

Given this data, a Fog user who receives the payload can ask Fog ledger for a merkle proof of membership for the `TxOut`.
They can get the entire `TxOut` this way, match it against the shared secret and so unblind the amount commitment, and given the one-time
private key, they can spend it as normal using the transaction builder.

# Guide-level explanation
[guide-level-explanation]: #guide-level-explanation

A `TxOutGiftCode` is a payload which confers ownership of an individual `TxOut` in the blockchain,
and is a little less than 80 bytes in size.

> * To enable someone to spend a TxOut, we just have to give them the `onetime_private_key` of the `TxOut`.

Reviewer: As cited elsewhere, there's a race to spend. Notably a lot of clients tend to select txos based on optimization based algos. Clients would have to implement some kind txo locking mechanism with a ridiculously sized tombstone block (maybe like as in real gift cards - it has a redemption window) see: https://github.com/mobilecoinofficial/full-service/pull/270 in order to implement this in a way that's safe. 

There's a small enough amount of client languages I think where it *might* be reasonable for us to provide a set of traits/interfaces (java/android)/protocols (swift/ios) like "CanLockTxo" for clients that they'd need to implement to be able to use this feature. It could be enforced in some cases for things that use the specific APIs we provide. For Signal it would be feasible for us to PR these into their client to provide this functionality. 

Question is: is that work worth it?

Reviewer 2: You'd have to share the information about the "reserved" TxOuts between the linked clients, while you could do it on Signal via the message channel, other clients though, unfortunately, can't do it. Hence we can't have a guarantee that any other client that has access to this account won't accidentally spend your gift code before it was redeemed.

  this may actually be more efficient and prevent computing elliptic curve operations again unnecessarily.
* Modify `InputCredentials` so that it holds either the `shared_secret` OR the `view_private_key`, for backwards
  compatibility.

Clients will then be able to go from a `TxOutGiftCode` to an `InputCredentials` very easily.

Most likely, we could make this schema a new option to `PrintableWrapper` and deprecate the older `TransferPayload` to
discourage continued use, since they degrade the privacy of Fog users.

# Drawbacks
[drawbacks]: #drawbacks

In our opinion, there is no reason why we should not do this, and this version of gift codes is superior to the existing version.
The existing version is very complicated and forces all the clients to view-key scan the ledger with a new set of keys in order
to process a gift code. The "fixed" version that returns the `TxOut` public key avoids the view key scanning issue, but it still
isn't really compatible with Fog's privacy model. It is much simpler to just give away ownership of an existing `TxOut`, and
give the fog recipient a global `TxOut` index.

> This also makes creating gift codes instantaneous and not require on-chain events and fees.

Reviewer 2: This is true only if you have a TxOut with an exact amount, i.e. If Alice wants to send Bob 5MOB, but only has a single TxOut of value 10 MOB, she will have to first send 5 MOB to her own PublicAddress.

  and serves the purpose of uniquely identifying the `TxOut`.
  
Second, we propose an additional change in the design which improves some aspects of this.
* Instead of sending money to a temporary account, we try to just transfer ownership of a specific `TxOut`, by giving them
the private keys to that TxOut
  * To enable a recipient to see the unblinded amount of the `TxOut`, we just have to give them the `shared_secret`.
  * To enable a recipient to spend a `TxOut`, we just have to give them the `onetime_private_key`.
  
Given this data, a Fog user who receives the payload can ask Fog ledger for a merkle proof of membership for the `TxOut` of given index.
They can get the entire `TxOut` this way, match it against the shared secret and so unblind the amount commitment, and given the one-time
private key, they can spend it as normal using the transaction builder.

A major concern for mobile apps is the ability to track things across linked devices using the blockchain (and not a separate synchronization
mechanism). It is a concern for instance that one app may be trying to give away a `TxOut` in a gift code, while another selects it to be spent in a transaction.

> To avoid that, we propose to standardize that `GIFT_CODE_SUBADDRESS_INDEX = 2`, and that before building a gift code, the app should make a self-payment to this

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To avoid that, we propose to standardize that `GIFT_CODE_SUBADDRESS_INDEX = u64::MAX - 1`, and that before building a gift code, the app should make a self-payment to this
```

> subaddress witht he correct amount for the gift code. Then the gift code is built against the `TxOut` that belongs to subaddress 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
subaddress with the correct amount for the gift code. Then the gift code is built against the `TxOut` that belongs to subaddress `u64::MAX - 1`.
```

The advantage of this is that unlike with the temporary address, the fog user is able to track the gift code.
* The `TxOut` still belongs to the sender's address, even if we gave the private keys away to someone (who may not have used it yet).

> * We don't lose track of the in-flight gift code if the app is restarted -- all linked devices can learn about the in-flight gift code because of the use of subaddress 2.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* We don't lose track of the in-flight gift code if the app is restarted -- all linked devices can learn about the in-flight gift code because of the use of subaddress `u64::MAX - 1`.
```

  This was not the case with the temporary address.
* Because the `TxOut` still belongs to us, we can see if the gift code is actually used by the recipient, and if for some reason it is never used, we can
  reclaim the money. (This would still be possible with the previous design, but it's more complicated because we have to preserve the temporary address entropy off-chain somewhere.)

> * The app can also more simply have recoverable transaction history around the use of gift codes, because they can represent in-bound `TxOut`'s to subaddress 2 as gift-code funding

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The app can also more simply have recoverable transaction history around the use of gift codes, because they can represent in-bound `TxOut`'s to subaddress `u64::MAX - 1` as gift-code funding
```

contingent input and require that 90 MOB comes back to you as change, and give this to the counterparty, and then that would be the gift code.
However, this has a lot of drawbacks, one being that, it doesn't help linked devices synchronize this, and another being that, these inputs
are much bigger than the `TransferPayload` and the `TxOutGiftCode`, because they have to contain an entire Ring MLSAG.

# Prior art
[prior-art]: #prior-art

None that we are aware of.

# Unresolved questions
[unresolved-questions]: #unresolved-questions

There should probably be RTH memos that can be used to remember who you sent a gift code to,
and help you remember that you canceled a gift code.

We should make such memos in this MCIP or a later MCIP.

# Future possibilities
[future-possibilities]: #future-possibilities

It seems that we are often in a position of reserving subaddresses for new purposes discovered in mobile applications.

This conflicts with how subaddresses are used in applications like `mobilecoind` and `full-service`, which are often assigning
a new subaddress per contact.

> Since we want for users to be able to export their account from mobile apps and load them in desktop apps and have things work cleanly,

Reviewer 4: Not sure how much we want to try and keep _all_ MCIPs up to date, especially when multiple associated ones end up in flight at the same time.
This could reference MCIP [36](https://github.com/mobilecoinfoundation/mcips/blob/main/text/0036-reserved-subaddresses.md) or perhaps this future possibilities section should go away.

I'm also fine with leaving this as is if that is desired.

Author: FWIW I think we should try to keep all the MCIPs up to date, so that readers who jump into our ecosystem can understand what's going on

Reviewer 4: Given that I would vote for removing the future work section from this MCIP since it has now been accepted as [MCIP 36](https://github.com/mobilecoinfoundation/mcips/blob/main/text/0036-reserved-subaddresses.md)

Author: thank you
